README.md, before:

# dsci-511-project
DSCI-511 - Final Project - Group 1

## Financial Market Data Store

### Group 1 - Members
- Geoff Patton - gp495@drexel.edu
- Ananda Mahalingam - asm465@drexel.edu
- Fengtian Lu - fl373@drexel.edu
- Rohit Bhattacharya - rb689@drexel.edu

### Project Summary
Our appication will generate real-time and historical financial market data. Our data store is available to view in Google Drive: [Access Link](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1hgWRHwlC9thoPKd7-dRqEHTPGYv3LtUk?usp=sharing). It contains data from all S&P 500 companies. We use [Finnhub](https://finnhub.io/docs/api) as the source of our data. Below is a list of the data we generate for analysis:
 - __Basic Conpany Financials:__ Includes the basic financials of a company such as margin, P/E ratio, 52-week high/low etc.
   - `basic_company_financials.csv`
 - __Company Profile:__ General information on a company.
   - `company_profile.csv`
 - __Candlestick Data:__ Daily candlestick data (OHLCV) for stocks.
   - `candlestick_data.csv`
 - __Company Surprise Earnings:__ Historical quarterly earnings containing expected and actual earnings
   - `surprise_earnings.csv`
 - __Recommendation Trends:__ The latest analyst recommendation trends for a company.
   - `recommendation_trends.csv`
 - __Insider Sentiment:__ Insider sentiment for companies using the Monthly Share Purchase Ratio (MSPR). To give investors a glimpse at what the executives are thinking about the stock price and valuation in the near future.
   - `insider_sentiment.csv`
 - __Insider Transactions:__ Insider transactions data sourced from Form 3,4,5, SEDI and relevant companies' filings.
   - `insider_transactions.csv`
 - __Social Media Sentiment:__ Social sentiment for stocks on Reddit and Twitter.
   - `social_media_sentiment.csv`
 - __Senate Lobbying Activities:__ List of reported lobbying activities in the Senate and the House.
   - `senate_lobbying.csv`
 - __Finanicals as Reported:__ a company's financials as reported including income statements, cash fow, and balance sheets.
   - `balance_sheet.csv`, `cash_flow.csv`, `income_statement.csv`

### Issues and Limitations:
 - Timeouts/Rate Limit:
   - 60 finnhub API calls/minute for each client
   - 300 google API Calls/minute
 - Our historical data is limited due to using a free version of finnhub


## Running the Application
We produced two different jupyter notebooks:
1. `final_project_group_one.ipynb`: this notebook will generate the data locally into CSV files. The input is a hardcoded list of stock tickers that can be adjusted.
2. `google_drive/project.ipynb`: this notebook will generate the data directly into our shared [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1hgWRHwlC9thoPKd7-dRqEHTPGYv3LtUk?usp=sharing) location. This version will allow the user to input a stock symbol or could run against all stock tickers from a specific market i.e. Nasdaq, NY stock exchange, ect.


### Software Pre-requisites:
```
pip install pandas
pip install finnhub-python
```

### Running instructions 
- Open the `final_project_group_one.ipynb` jupyter notebook
- Press `Run All` Button
  - This will run the notebook using the hardcoded set of tickers defined in the last code section of the notebook.

Commit message:

project: cleaned up code. Added to README

README.md, after:

# dsci-511-project
DSCI-511 - Final Project - Group 1

## Financial Market Data Store

### Group 1 - Members
- Geoff Patton - gp495@drexel.edu
- Ananda Mahalingam - asm465@drexel.edu
- Fengtian Lu - fl373@drexel.edu
- Rohit Bhattacharya - rb689@drexel.edu

### Project Summary
Our appication will generate real-time and historical financial market data. Our data store is available to view in Google Drive: [Access Link](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1hgWRHwlC9thoPKd7-dRqEHTPGYv3LtUk?usp=sharing). It contains data from all S&P 500 companies. We use [Finnhub](https://finnhub.io/docs/api) as the source of our data. Below is a list of the data we generate for analysis:
 - __Basic Conpany Financials:__ Includes the basic financials of a company such as margin, P/E ratio, 52-week high/low etc.
   - `basic_company_financials.csv`
 - __Company Profile:__ General information on a company.
   - `company_profile.csv`
 - __Candlestick Data:__ Daily candlestick data (OHLCV) for stocks.
   - `candlestick_data.csv`
 - __Company Surprise Earnings:__ Historical quarterly earnings containing expected and actual earnings
   - `surprise_earnings.csv`
 - __Recommendation Trends:__ The latest analyst recommendation trends for a company.
   - `recommendation_trends.csv`
 - __Insider Sentiment:__ Insider sentiment for companies using the Monthly Share Purchase Ratio (MSPR). To give investors a glimpse at what the executives are thinking about the stock price and valuation in the near future.
   - `insider_sentiment.csv`
 - __Insider Transactions:__ Insider transactions data sourced from Form 3,4,5, SEDI and relevant companies' filings.
   - `insider_transactions.csv`
 - __Social Media Sentiment:__ Social sentiment for stocks on Reddit and Twitter.
   - `social_media_sentiment.csv`
 - __Senate Lobbying Activities:__ List of reported lobbying activities in the Senate and the House.
   - `senate_lobbying.csv`
 - __Finanicals as Reported:__ a company's financials as reported including income statements, cash fow, and balance sheets.
   - `balance_sheet.csv`, `cash_flow.csv`, `income_statement.csv`

### Issues and Limitations:
 - Timeouts/Rate Limit:
   - 60 finnhub API calls/minute for each client
   - 300 google API Calls/minute
 - Our historical data is limited due to using a free version of finnhub


## Running the Application
We produced two different jupyter notebooks:
1. `final_project_group_one.ipynb`: this notebook will generate the data locally into CSV files. The input is a hardcoded list of stock tickers that can be adjusted.
2. `google_drive/project.ipynb`: this notebook will generate the data directly into our shared [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1hgWRHwlC9thoPKd7-dRqEHTPGYv3LtUk?usp=sharing) location. This version will allow the user to input a stock symbol or could run against all stock tickers from a specific market i.e. Nasdaq, NY stock exchange, ect.


### Software Pre-requisites:
```
pip install pandas
pip install finnhub-python
```

### Running instructions 
- Open the `final_project_group_one.ipynb` jupyter notebook
- Press `Run All` Button
  - This will run the notebook using the hardcoded set of stock tickers defined in the last code section of the notebook.


### Code Overview
Our jupyter notebooks are designed to iterate over a collection of stock symbols and will populate each one our datasets with the most up to date financial information provided from Finnhub. Our datasets are designed to allow additional entries to be added to them while maintaining all historical data that already exists and not allow duplicate entries.
